Version history of spherium.m by Andy French 

14th April 2013. v2.1
Use can select 'bespoke' as a colormap option. This will load the file bespoke_colormap.mat.

17th August 2012. v2.0
Major refactor. Different spheria now have separate GUIs which define their parameters. 'plugin' style architecture. Spheria have common code and 
are automatically picked up by the main GUI. Code is accessed via a strong naming convention which must match the SPHERIA directory name.
Surface generation is therefore decoupled from the generic effects applied by the main spherium code. This should aid maintenance and simplify the addition of future plugins.
Some minor updated too. Hydrogenic orbitals and Klein bottles are now parameterized. Polyspike and polyhedron generators are also included. 
The 'low resolution' button has been removed as each spheria controls is resolution separately.
PNG images are now date and time stamped rather than overwritten. Close routin is also improved to allow for the code to 
be closed when is is run from a read-only drive.

14th March 2012. v1.6
Camera roll and pan buttons added. Colour map and imporved sine, log etc colouring options added. Now the latter works with surfaces and klein bottle.

11th March 2012. v1.5
View and Rotate3D replaced by camera functions. Spheria normalized such that overall radii = 1. Cam dolly now modifies azi consistently. Blue button removed! 
Replaced by fast_update_gui function within spherium.m

13th February 2012. v1.4
Removal of fig2pic in favour of a variable resolution print command (!). Modifications to crop2fig and then a new function (fitpic2paper) to achieve
the desired output. Load transparency, holes and texture maps from files. Default and current versions are stored in the functions directory.

14th December 2011. v1.3
Aborted attempt to add polyhedra to spheria objects. This can't be done until one can define platonic solids
in erms of azi and elev. Currently they can be constructed as patch objects, but this is incompatible with
the spheria, which are surface objects.
New functions 'spike' and 'detonate' added to give extra effects. Note spherefunctions can be defined as
a function and called from spherium.

12th November 2011. v1.2
Lights increased from one to three. GUI modified to edit properties of lights. 
More could easily be added without modification to interface as lights are selected via a drop down menu.
handles.S modified to include an indexed light(n). structure holding light properties.

8/9th November 2011. v1.1
Texture map now can be applied to all surfaces.
Transparency and Holes maps can also be applied. .jpg files 'texture', 'holes' and 'transparency'
control these effects. Colour conversions are done automatically within spherium so they don't have to be grayscale, black and white etc.
.mat file structure modified to include transparency, holes and new texture.jpg colorfunction. Batch converter written to modify files.

5th July 2011. v1.
Numerous modifications to version presented to schools in Marseilles this year.
Hydrogenic orbitals, Klein bottle, 3D rotation, lighting control, bug fix relating to PNG output 
(spheria are now nicely scaled to the output paper), better error handling regarding invalid spherefunctia,
status bar with basic instructions, version history....

Original concept developed between 2008 and 2011. Spherium as a GUI was developed during March 2011
in preparation for a British Council sponsored 'Science in Schools' event in Marseilles.
Many thanks to the Mathworks for provision of a temporary licence during this time.
